Predicting physics trajectory.
In this video, we'll see how we can predict physics movement before it happens.
We'll learn how this can help our games and our game players, and then we'll open up unity and see
a real world example of predicting trajectory.
So what is physics Prediction?
Prediction is calculating the future properties, for example, position or rotation of objects within
your physics system.
Some examples of this are visualization showing a line or arrow to suggest to the user where their bullet
will go.
Or I Doing this prediction gives more relevant input into the intelligence systems of our game.
Let's take an example from our Section five Upset Ducks game.
Currently it's complete and playable, but it has no predictive physics.
An example of visualization would be to calculate the path of the asteroid and display an arrow as visualization.
This would increase feedback for the user and give them a better connection to the game.
A more positive game feel.
The result would be helping our users make smarter choices before they even release the asteroid.
They would know more or less where it's headed.
Another example would be AI.
We can calculate the path of the asteroid for the eye.
We could have enemies react with fear as we aim right toward them.
Or we could have enemies that jump out of the way to avoid the collisions.
Or, of course, we could do both.
We could have visualization and updated AI.
So how do we predict physics?
We create a primary scene and we set up an object with some physics forces.
Then we create a secondary invisible physics scene.
There we can add marker balls, and for each of the balls we can simulate Delta time with a unique Delta
time kind of ticking through the arc of travel where that object would travel.
Let's take a look at a demo.
Let's look at trajectory prediction.
We'll play the scene.
Will view the inspector for the jumping Cube game object, will update its force, will view the prediction,
and will inspect the code.
All right.
Here we are inside unity, jumping into trajectory prediction.
Now, in this project, what I've got set up is.
A cube that has a script on it.
And what this does is it illustrates where the physics force that is about to be applied is headed.
And you can see this arc of markers that is here in front of the cube.
And what I'm able to do here is this is the physics force that's going to be applied.
I use that same value to show where this will travel.
Now, one thing, while I was working on this, this is relatively new into unity.
It's a public feature, but still, I hadn't used it in in production before and I was disappointed
by the speed of this.
It's not actually that smooth and there could be some optimizations to be had, but it certainly works
and it works well.
So I'm able to move the forces there and then I've got a couple of buttons here that would be set up,
probably simulating the user input somehow to move.
I'll go ahead and use force and you can see it hops there and that follows the line perfectly.
See, I've got a couple prediction sliders here so we can make more or less of those.
More or less of these markers in the arc.
So let's take a look if I go into the code here.
Let's go through the important things.
So the serialized properties we just saw are there in the start.
What I'm doing is I'm creating new scene parameters and a new scene.
This is of a type called local physics.
So I'm creating a new scene that's going to run kind of transparently right next to our main scene.
So I do that in the start.
Then down here in the.
In the prediction.
Me see here.
So what's really happening in the prediction?
As I'm calling this use markers.
I've got a few timing iterations set up.
So here's the bulk of the work, right?
There's two steps.
First, I rebuild the markers, so periodically when I update the inspector by tweaking some of the
values, I'll rebuild the markers.
Again, this is regenerating those marker ball game objects.
And what I'm doing is just looping through and creating enough of them.
So now that we've got enough of them and notice here in line 151, I'm moving these game objects to
the other scene, to that prediction scene that we created, and I'm giving them a name as well that
just helps me in the inspector.
So after I've rebuilt the markers, I can actually do the prediction.
So I take that same set of prediction iterations and I loop through them.
And in this for loop, what I'm doing is for each prediction that I'm doing, I'm simulating that scene's
physics.
One tick.
So if I hadn't manually called simulate, there would be no physics simulation there.
So what I'm able to do is loop through and tick it once and then move one of the markers to that spot.
Then I tick it again and I move the next marker to that spot and I proceed until I make the entire arc.
And that's it.
The process works really well.
It's giving me just the result that I want.
As I mentioned, it doesn't run so fast in a frame rate sort of way, but it still works really good.
That's it.
Thanks very much.
In the next video, we'll take a look at the data oriented technology stack or dots for unity physics.